Write documentation for zip & enumerate (#37)
Akuli/python-tutorial: basics/trey-hunner-zip-and-enumerate.md

c 3
>>>
```
[comment]: # (Zip and Enumerarate by Tushar starts here)

Now you're ready to read [this awesome looping
tutorial](http://treyhunner.com/2016/04/how-to-loop-with-indexes-in-python/).
Read it now, then come back here and do the exercises.

> ## Exercises

Author: added them back

`zip(iterator1, iterator2, iterator3 ...) `

### Parameter Values

`zip()` can take 2 or more iterator values like so `zip(iterator1, iterator2, iterator3....)`. These
iterators will be joined together once the function is executed.

### Example 1

> Let's look at an example, suppose we wish to join 2 tuples together.

Reviewer: I think all of this (from `### Syntax` to `Let's look at an example, ...`) can be deleted:
- The example below shows how it works. It is better to first show how it works, and then explain it as simply as you can if needed. So any explanation before showing is just unnecessary, and more likely to be confusing than useful: beginners don't yet have the skill to ignore the noise and scroll down to the code.
- Taking more than 2 iterables is a detail that IMO doesn't belong in a tutorial about Python basics.
- The `### Example 1` is unnecessary. Just show the example. It is obviously the first example in the file, no need to emphasize that.

```python
>>> users = ["Tushar", "Aman", "Anurag", "Sohit"]
>>> uids = ["usr122", "usr123", "usr124", "usr125"]
>>> user_details = zip(uids, users)
>>> print(user_details)
<zip object at 0x0000016938E311C0>
>>>
```

After calling zip, an iterator is returned. In order to see the content wrapped inside, we need to first convert it to a list. Basically, `zip()` is an iterator, i.e. lazy: it gives the items as needed, instead of calculating them and storing them into memory all at once. So the zip object cannot show its elements before the elements are used, because it hasn't computed them yet.

```python
>>> users = ["Tushar", "Aman", "Anurag", "Sohit"]
>>> uids = ["usr122", "usr123", "usr124", "usr125"]
>>> user_details = zip(uids, users)
>>> print(list(user_details))
[('usr122', 'Tushar'), ('usr123', 'Aman'), ('usr124', 'Anurag'), ('usr125', 'Sohit')]
>>>
```

If the lists are of different lengths, some items from the end of the longer list will be ignored.

```python

> >>> users = ["Tushar", "Aman", "Anurag", "Sohit"]

Reviewer: Presumably Sohit shouldn't be in the users list. You say below that its length is 3, and Sohit is missing from the output.

```suggestion
>>> users = ["Tushar", "Aman", "Anurag"]
```

Author: 🤣 The plan was to remove "Sohit" from users

>>> emails = ["tushar@example.com", "aman@example.com", "anurag@example.com", "sohit@example.com"]
>>> users_contact = zip(users, emails)
>>> print(list(users_contact))
[('Tushar', 'tushar@example.com'), ('Aman', 'aman@example.com'), ('Anurag', 'anurag@example.com')]
>>>
```

> Length of `users` list is 3 thus it is the shortest. `zip()` function will crop other lists to consider them equally and will finally join all items together.

Reviewer: This could be misleading. It sounds like `zip` is modifying the lists and removing elements from them, but that's not what is happening.

This explains what happens, and I think it's about as simple as possible:

```suggestion
Here the shortest list is `users`, with length 3, so `zip(users, emails)` only takes the first 3 emails.
```

> ### Using zip with for loop

Reviewer: Before moving onto a new section, we should probably mention that it's usually a mistake to call `zip()` with lists of different lengths. I don't think I have ever intentionally zipped lists of different lengths.

Author: I think calling it a mistake is not viable, we should say not recommended instead!

> ```python

Reviewer: This section contains just code, with no explanation. This is almost ok, because the unpacking was already explained earlier, but I think it would still leave people wondering what the unpacking here does :)

```suggestion
It is very common to `for` loop over a `zip()`, and unpack the returned tuples in the `for` loop.
This is why we introduced unpacking in the beginning of this page.

```python
```

>>>
```

## zip

> What comes to your mind when you hear the word `zip`? A mechanism extensively used to tie two parts of something i.e. Shirt, Jacket etc. The `zip()` functions does pretty much same, it helps us tie two or more different items together.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What comes to your mind when you hear the word `zip`? A mechanism extensively used to tie two parts of something, e.g. shirt or jacket. Python's `zip()` functions does pretty much same, it helps us tie corresponding items together.
```

```python
>>> users = ["Tushar", "Aman", "Anurag", "Sohit"]
>>> uids = ["usr122", "usr123", "usr124", "usr125"]
>>> user_details = zip(uids, users)
>>> print(user_details)
<zip object at 0x0000016938E311C0>
>>>
```

> After calling zip, an iterator is returned. In order to see the content wrapped inside, we need to first convert it to a list. Basically, `zip()` is an iterator, i.e. lazy: it gives the items as needed, instead of calculating them and storing them into memory all at once. So the zip object cannot show its elements before the elements are used, because it hasn't computed them yet.

Reviewer: Maybe we should first show it with `print(list(user_details))`, and then do the same without `list()` and explain why that doesn't work as intended. This way the first successful print is as close to the explanation with shirt and jacket zippers as possible.

```python
>>> users = ["Tushar", "Aman", "Anurag", "Sohit"]
>>> uids = ["usr122", "usr123", "usr124", "usr125"]
>>> user_details = zip(uids, users)
>>> print(list(user_details))
[('usr122', 'Tushar'), ('usr123', 'Aman'), ('usr124', 'Anurag'), ('usr125', 'Sohit')]
>>>
```

If the lists are of different lengths, some items from the end of the longer list will be ignored.

```python
>>> users = ["Tushar", "Aman", "Anurag"]
>>> emails = ["tushar@example.com", "aman@example.com", "anurag@example.com", "sohit@example.com"]
>>> users_contact = zip(users, emails)
>>> print(list(users_contact))
[('Tushar', 'tushar@example.com'), ('Aman', 'aman@example.com'), ('Anurag', 'anurag@example.com')]
>>>
```

Here the shortest list is `users`, with length 3, so `zip(users, emails)` only takes the first 3 emails.

> > We do not recommend calling `zip()` with lists of different lengths.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We do not recommend calling `zip()` with lists of different lengths, because ignoring items is usually not what you intended to do.
```

### Using zip with `for` loop

It is very common to `for` loop over a `zip()`, and unpack the returned tuples in the `for` loop.
This is why we introduced unpacking in the beginning of this page.

```python
>>> roll_nums = [20, 25, 28]
>>> students = ["Joe", "Max", "Michel"]
>>> for roll_num, student in zip(roll_nums, students):
...     print(f"Roll number of {student} is {roll_num}")
...
Roll number of Joe is 20
Roll number of Max is 25
Roll number of Michel is 28
>>>
```

## enumerate

`enumerate()` is an amazing Built-in function offered by python. When used, gives us the index and the item combined. long story short! `enumerate` comes in handy while working with loops as it gives us access to both the item and it's index at the same time.

```python
>>> even_nums = [2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12]
>>> print(list(enumerate(even_nums)))
[(0, 2), (1, 4), (2, 6), (3, 8), (4, 10), (5, 12)]

> >>>
> ```
> 
> ### looping with `enumerate()`
> 
> ```python

Reviewer: We can probably combine these two examples together:

```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Indeed, we should keep both, but they don't need to be separated like this.

>>> even_nums = [2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12]
>>> for index, item in enumerate(even_nums):
...     print(f"Index of {item} is {index}")
...
Index of 2 is 0
Index of 4 is 1
Index of 6 is 2
Index of 8 is 3
Index of 10 is 4
Index of 12 is 5
>>>
```

> ### looping without `enumerate()`
> 
> let's take a look at how we can do the same thing in a more traditional way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is also possible (but more difficult) to do this without `enumerate()`:
```

```python
>>> even_nums = [2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12]
>>> for index in range(0,  len(even_nums)):
...     print(f"Index of {even_nums[index]} is {index}")
...
Index of 2 is 0
Index of 4 is 1
Index of 6 is 2
Index of 8 is 3
Index of 10 is 4
Index of 12 is 5
>>>
```

> * `range(0, len(even_nums))` gives 0,1,2,3,4,5, with the list length 6 excluded
> * because these are the valid indexes of a list of length 6, `even_nums[index]` prints each element of `even_nums`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here:
* `range(0, len(even_nums))` gives 0,1,2,3,4,5, with the list length 6 excluded. These are the indexes of our list of length 6.
* `even_nums[index]` prints each element of `even_nums`, because `index` comes from the range of all indexes into that list.
```

> > This is complicated to think about and easy to get wrong, so it's better to use `enumerate()`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because this is complicated to think about and easy to get wrong, it is better to use `enumerate()`.
```

`enumerate()` is an amazing Built-in function offered by python. When used, gives us the index and the item combined. long story short! `enumerate` comes in handy while working with loops as it gives us access to both the item and it's index at the same time.

```python
>>> even_nums = [2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12]
>>> print(list(enumerate(even_nums)))
[(0, 2), (1, 4), (2, 6), (3, 8), (4, 10), (5, 12)]
>>>
```

> Before we use it in a loop let's take a look how we would do the same thing in a traditional way.

Reviewer: I think it would make sense to do this in the opposite order: first `enumerate()`, then `range(0, len(even_nums))`. Usually people copy the first code example they find, and we want people to use `enumerate()`.

> ### looping without `enumerate()`

Reviewer: This is another code-only section. We should explain:
- `range(0, len(even_nums))` gives 0,1,2,3,4,5, with the list length 6 excluded
- Because these are the valid indexes of a list of length 6, it prints each element of `even_nums`
- This is complicated to think about and easy to get wrong, so it's better to use `enumerate()`

>>>
```

Now you're ready to read [this awesome looping
tutorial](http://treyhunner.com/2016/04/how-to-loop-with-indexes-in-python/).
Read it now, then come back here and do the exercises.

> 

Reviewer: We can delete this now
```suggestion
```
